pls hold on these fixes. As I would like to redesign and reimplement the project as the below - previously, we have the two ways to use the release of the project 
1. build the linux kernel image and rootfs in host and then use it.
2. download the released zip from github and extract to use.
there are pros and cons of the two ways:
the 1st the user need to setup the building enviornment and run command to build themselves
the 2nd the users no need to setup building and build by itself, but need to dowload the large zip file (as it contain almost all sources code and symbols for debuging)
I am considering design and implment to improve on their cons, what is ur proposal and suggestion  
=========

You’re basically trying to get the convenience of “download and run” without shipping a huge “everything-including-sources+symbols” release, while also making “build from source” less painful. I’d redesign this as a 3‑tier distribution with on-demand debug assets, plus an easy/consistent build environment for people who do want to rebuild.

Proposal: Hybrid distribution (recommended)

Base VM (small, “run-only”)
Contains only what’s needed to boot and debug at a basic level:
qemu-system-*, kernel Image/zImage, rootfs.ext*
LLDB/GDB + SOS plugin (or at least enough to attach)
minimal sample app(s)
No full Buildroot output tree, no huge source bundles, no giant symbol piles.
Goal: keep this download as small as reasonably possible.
Debug Packs (download only when needed)
Split the “big stuff” into optional assets people can fetch when they actually need them:
Kernel debug pack
vmlinux (with DWARF), kernel modules .ko, System.map, etc.
.NET runtime debug pack
libcoreclr.so.dbg, libclrjit.so.dbg, System.Native.so symbols, etc.
Any extra native symbols you generate (or reference Microsoft symbol server when possible).
SOS/diagnostics pack (if it’s large)
managed bits / tooling that isn’t required for “base run”
(Optional) Source pack
Only if you truly need offline source browsing.
Otherwise prefer SourceLink + git clone tags/commits on-demand.
Crucially: users who just want “run VM and try lldb+SOS” download Base VM only; users who want “step into runtime/kernel” add the relevant debug pack(s).

On-demand fetch via a single CLI script
Instead of telling users to manually wget 10 files, provide a small helper like:
./4dotnet get base arm64
./4dotnet get dotnet-symbols arm64 --version 8.0.0
./4dotnet get kernel-symbols arm64 --kernel 6.0.x
./4dotnet verify (sha256)
./4dotnet run arm64
This directly addresses:

Build-from-source pain: most users don’t build anything.
Huge download pain: only download what you need, when you need it.
How this solves your two current modes

Mode 1 (build yourself): keep it, but make it easier

Provide a containerized build environment (Docker/Podman) so users don’t fight host deps.
Example: ./tools/build-env/run.sh make ... (mounts repos, uses ccache).
This reduces the “setup environment” con dramatically.
Mode 2 (download release): keep it, but make it smaller + modular

Base VM = small.
Debug packs are optional.
Sources should come from git tags/commits, not embedded in the VM release.
Key design choices to make this work well

Manifest-driven releases

Publish manifest.json per release that lists:
assets, sizes, sha256, target arch, dotnet version, kernel version, buildroot commit, etc.
Your 4dotnet helper reads the manifest and fetches exactly what’s needed.
Prefer “source mapping” over bundling sources

You already use source-map patterns (/__w/1/s/..., /root/buildroot).
Keep that, but let users obtain sources by:
git clone at the exact commit (or git worktree add) when needed
optional “source pack” only for offline use
Symbols: serve them, don’t ship them by default

For Microsoft-provided symbols: use symbol servers where possible.
For your custom-built native bits: consider generating a symstore layout and hosting it separately as an asset (“symbol store pack”).
If you stick with GitHub Releases only: still split symbols into multiple assets.
Delta-friendly compression

Your tar.xz split is workable, but for repeated releases you may benefit from:
tar.zst (zstd) for faster decompression
optionally “separate stable base” + “small update packs” if you want to go further later
If you want a concrete target UX

“Just try it”: download ~few hundred MB base → run VM.
“Kernel debugging”: add kernel debug pack (vmlinux).
“.NET runtime stepping”: add runtime symbols pack + optionally runtime sources via git.
If you tell me your target size goals (e.g., “Base must be < 500MB” or similar) and whether GitHub Releases must remain the only distribution channel, I can propose a specific artifact layout (exact filenames, what goes in each pack, and the manifest schema + CLI commands).
